has gone 13 GMT that's 6:00 a.m. in Los
Angeles where Riot police have been
clearing a peaceful protest at the
University of California it was one of
the largest police raids on student
protesters since Nationwide
demonstrations and solidarity with Gaza
broke
out well after a standoff that lasted
hours police fired stun grenades to push
a protest barricade back reinforcements
were brought in to surround the
demonstrators and arrests were made but
a few students remain defiant with a
call for peace in Gaza we've got a team
of correspondents covering the protests
in the US Kristen salumi standing by at
New York University for us shihab bansi
is going to have the latest from George
Washington University in the US capital
first we're going to head to Phil lavel
who's joining us from Los Angeles Phil
talk us through what's been happening
over the last several
hours well you know Dawn is Breaking now
Rob and it's signaling an end to this
protest we think they've pretty much
taken every last protester out now a few
minutes ago there was a line of police
taking the protesters out here they were
leading them out fairly peacefully it
has to be said I think the protesters
here realized that they' gone as far as
they could for this particular protest
uh they weren't not really putting up
too much resistance and you know there
were a few that left voluntarily but we
heard the police officers say they're
not going to come out voluntarily we've
got to go in and then they brought them
out so now we're going through the
process where the police are walking
through through this encampment remember
for days this has been a solid very
dense area with tents packed right next
to each other now the police are going
through and they're dismantling the
tents there is Davy everywhere I mean
there are signs that people have been
living here for a week and you can see
on the floor some of the things that
these people have been living off and
you know we've got gaffa tape where
people have been um having to tie things
together and you know what was
interesting about the protesters as we
saw them coming out was they were all or
the majority of them were wearing gas
masks that is because uh obviously they
were worried that there was going to be
tear gas involved obviously we had that
violence the other day in fact there's a
a fire extinguisher over here presumably
not necessarily just a fight in fact we
just had another flashbang which
suggests that maybe they may still be
trying to disperse some protesters
although I'm not sure where they would
be uh particularly because this area is
now all clear perhaps set off
accidentally if we head over here we're
going to take you just slightly outside
the encampment this railing here that
we're walking towards this is where so
we're we're inside where the encampment
was this was until a few hours ago
boarded up with fences and blocks of
wood and crates to stop police getting
in but also to stop uh any counter
protest getting in because remember we
saw that violence uh on Tuesday night
where those pro- Israeli supporters
turned up and tried to attack those
protesters we're just going to walk over
here cuz this is where a number of the
protesters have been taken they've been
lined up by officers and they're wearing
zip ties and you can hear them I'll just
I'll just be quiet for a second you can
hear them still chanting to find to the
end
[Music]
listen okay we've just been told by the
police that we have to
move back up folks come on right there
so we have to we have to walk around
this way but we'll try to stay as close
as we
[Music]
can so you can see here we've got these
huge buses that are lined up this is the
county of Los Angeles sheriff's
department and we have these massive
buses which are going to be used to
process these
students Phil we can hear the
determination obviously in the the
voices of the protest is still chanting
there but is this it for the protest at
UCLA or is there a plan to keep some
sort of protest
going let's check
is this the end of the
protest is this the end of the
protest as you can see we're asking them
uh we're not getting many answers you
know there has been uh I've been to
several of these campuses Rob over the
last week or so and in a lot of them
there is a lot of Suspicion towards the
media particularly here at UCLA um I
know that there been there's been a lot
of resistance to speak to the media uh
directly
let me try once more is this the end of
the
[Music]
protest the end of protest is this the
end of the
protest is this the end of the protest
no not at
all will you be
back I'm not saying I'm going to be back
but there will be be people be back
people will be back it's not the end
it's not going to be the
end until the genocide ends in the
funding for the genocide ends the
billions of dollars spent what would you
say to UCLA after all of this it's
disappointing very
disappointing gentle okay we're being
asked to move by the by the sheriff
department yep yes sir we're moving
okay y we're moving so the sheriff's
department are over there as you can see
they've got the buses lined up and we're
being led Away by the sheriffs at the
moment so we have to move um this screen
here which you can see as we walk past
here this was a massive display that was
set up by those pro-israeli supporters
this has been playing and you can see
the speakers next to it has been playing
images of October the 7th for several
days day and night particularly I'm told
at night loudly uh as as a counter
protest obviously now it is uh it is no
longer active but uh y as we can see
these protesters are now basically
waiting they're lining up waiting to be
booked uh and they will line up on those
on those huge buses there were seven or
eight of those from the sheriff's
department lined up plus a whole lot
more on a federal site further away and
uh they will be taken to be processed
whether they'll be charged with
misdemeanors uh or whether they will be
released we will we'll wait to see and
whether they will be back again because
you know as we've seen with a lot of
these protests they are closed down but
then they come back they might not be in
an encampment here but they will be back
and in the distance you may be able to
hear I'm not sure because it's quite
faint there is a load of other
protesters who come up to show some
solidarity Rob Phil thanks very much
indeed I want to say thank you to you
and your team for giving us that tour of
the the uh former campsite there and
also being able to talk to one of those
protesters who's being arrested Phil
thank you very much indeed and I'm
joined Now by Lo from Los Angeles by
Lauren Victoria re she's a community
activist and she's supporting the
students I understand you were attending
the protests but you left let me ask you
first of all what was the motivation for
being part of the protests in the first
place
um so just real quick I know the
gentleman that just spoke he said that
we don't trust media and I do not
represent uh the students that organize
the event I do not represent UCLA in any
way whatsoever so I just want to get
that out there um my main reason
was there is no way I don't believe that
you can see the Carnage see the genocide
see the the trauma that we're witnessing
understand that our tax money is paying
for it and not need to go to these
events these events are are so important
and they're so vital and they've been
vital to every single Community movement
that's ever existed because something
clicked something clicked for us um
second third week of October when we
realized exactly how complacent we've
been how
complacent the the way our our system is
run has forced us to be they've hid
they've shrouded us from the rest of the
world as this beautiful American
patriotic thing and now we're finding
out and I'll say we're finding I'm
finding out that not only have we
facilitated the genocide of the
indigenous people that lived here on
this land we've actually facilitated the
genocide of so many people so many
people around the globe I apologize
that's my grandmother in the back we've
facilitated the death and we have funded
the death of so many innocent people in
the world and that was our Mo that's
part of the motivation part of the
motivation for getting out there let me
ask you the people that you've been
talking to over the last several weeks
uh or perhaps since October the 7th when
the the this part of the War
Began who are the people that you're
talking to how wide is the the
collection of people what are the
differences amongst the people that
you've been talking to who share this
common goal of stopping the war in Gaza
but may come from um desperate cult Cal
backgrounds or religious
backgrounds every culture Creed gender
sexuality religion every single person
is represented at these at these marches
at these meetings at these encampments
every single person from every corner of
the globe has found themselves to
resonate with their story resonates with
the Palestinians I'm indigenous to um
the New Mexico area my family is from
that area originally and
I as an indigenous woman I didn't
understand my own story my own trauma my
own pain until I met Palestinian women
who had experienced the same things
their children were taken from them they
were subjected to horrible mistreatment
in their own land and I didn't realize
how similar our stories are and I think
that is specifically part of the tactic
of how America is run if they keep us
separated if they keep us divided we can
never unite and realize that at the end
of the day we all have the same enemy
and the enemy
is global Supremacy white supremacy and
frankly capitalism it's all of these
things make protests encampments like
this inevitable you have ra we've
they've raised a generation who is so
desensitized to unnecessary suffering
between
all of like the students that are
protesting right now they're calling
them the Sandy generation why are they
calling them that because they have they
liveed through Sandy Hook and not only
that they witnessed the years after
Sandy Hook where their government made
choices against their safety every
single day every single day for their
entire adolescence their government was
actively working against them on one
side and then promising them freedom and
Justice on the other
so it's it everyone everyone you can
imagine was there I have met some of the
most amazing human beings from all walks
of life and we all find ourselves there
because it's not that we're angry to be
there it's that we have fallen so in
love with Palestine and Palestinians
it's inevitable Lauren thank you very
much indeed Lauren Victoria I should
just explain that Lauren was referring
to the Sandy Hook shootings at the
elementary school of s Sandy Hook in
which children were killed Lauren thank
you very much indeed Kristen salumi is
joining us now from New York University
in New York so bring us up to date with
what's been happening
there well frankly it's more of the same
pattern that we've seen in recent days
uh police move in and make arrests uh
they clear encampments and then the
protesters pop up someplace else I'm at
New York University uh where that
happened on April 22nd there was an
encampment in place and the university
called in police and arrested uh 128
people including 19 faculty members and
then days later the encampment behind me
was set up and here at NYU is where
uh Park in a park nearby is where a lot
of the demonstrators have been coming
and rallying including late last night
uh so let me bring you up to speed on
that uh yesterday after as nearly 300
Columbia and city college students were
being processed uh for their arrest a
new encampment had sprung up at forom
University in the middle of the city
there there were about a dozen tents in
a building it was a smaller protest the
protesters said they were doing it uh
out of inspiration from the Colombia
situation uh about 15 students were
arrested there police called in moved
out that encampment now we're hearing
about Stonybrook New York another school
where students have set up tents as well
uh and the the demonstrations just
continue uh yesterday when the students
were being processed at Police
Headquarters a rally uh happened around
the courthouse there and the students
who were supporting the students that
were arrested from other schools many of
them went to that location and then then
marched here to NYU uh in a park nearby
there were hundreds if not thousands
blocking traffic throughout the street
so what we are seeing this morning is
the quiet aftermath um this has been the
pattern the demonstrators stay out late
the police are uh called out late in
force uh patrolling the streets trying
to keep the streets clear and then the
students Retreat to their camps and
regroup and start up again in the
afternoon
just talk us through if we know what's
been happening to those arrested and
what's next for them but there's been a
lot of questions about what charges if
any are likely to be brought against
these young
people yeah absolutely and in fact I was
speaking to the New York Police
Department this morning trying to get a
breakdown of the arrest what they're
being charged with how many of them are
actually students uh given that the
mayor of the city Eric Adams has implied
that outside agitators are are behind
most of these demonstrations uh and they
don't have those numbers yet frankly and
they could not give me that breakdown we
know that just under 300 were arrested
as I said from Columbia and City College
with another uh 15 or so at forom
yesterday the charges the process is
that they have to be arraigned they're
treated like any other criminal they go
in they have their fingerprints taken
their mug shots taken uh most are
released with the summons to appear in
court at a later date What charges they
face it could range from Criminal
trespassing to disorderly conduct to
more serious charges in the case of
those who uh breached campus property
broke into that building on Columbia
University uh but the breakdown as I say
has not been shared publicly just yet uh
these students many of them will have to
appear in court uh it's not likely that
they would face jail time but they do
have the threat of a criminal record
hanging over their head as well as in
most cases suspension from their
universities uh if not permanent
expulsion it's Christ salomi at New York
University Kristen thank you we're going
to head to the US capital and shik
habitan is there George Washington
University so been watching these very
strong pictures coming out of UCLA
what's the mood where you
are it's all quiet here and it remains
quiet and you get the sense actually
after several Republican members of Cong
Congress came here yesterday and
threatened the mayor unless she clears
out the encampment that perhaps
unwittingly that means that the mayor
can't really act CU it looked like she's
acting under durest but we are all
watching what's happening at other
encampments let's get the reaction Sarah
is with me so we have UCLA moving in
firing rubber coated steel bullets at
unarmed protesters once again
unwittingly or wittingly perhaps given
that they're often trained by the
Israelis in their exchange programs very
similar to how the Israelis Street
unarmed protesters but what's your
reaction when you see all these pictures
it's honestly disgusting and it's
reprehensible that you know the
university in Tandem and in partnership
with these police forces would resort to
violence instead of listening to the
demands of the students instead of
actually acknowledging their um very
very realistic calls for the
universities to divest from companies
that are complicit in the occupation of
Palestine to disclose what companies are
invested in um especially looking at
UCLA it's a public school but a lot of
times these Public Schools will hide
their Investments by going through a
private company um and then also just
you know the call to protect
anti-zionist voices the fact that these
universities and these police
departments are putting zionists over
the own people that they're supposed to
protect is disgusting and the fact that
they're putting the interest of a
foreign entity over their own
constituents and their own citizens is
reprehensible La staunchly you know
Democratic party uh Democratic party
mainstate liberals they're the ones
calling in the cops cops there then you
have the Republic members of Congress
who were here yesterday calling you
anti-sites and calling for you to be
thrown out you have Joe Biden and the
White House still seeming to like incite
violence against you by calling you
anti-semitic it's an election year so
what do you do I mean and the opinion
polls show a majority of Americans are
with you where's where's where's your
Democratic Outlet then in an election
year de you know as as a US democracy I
think um a lot of people have become
disillusioned with the election process
especially within the past four years um
when Joe Biden ran four years ago you
know promising all these um big things
that he never deler delivered on and
that he doesn't even he never planned to
like cancelling student loan debt so I
believe a lot of people no longer
believe in the Democratic process that's
currently in place and they believe in
um having to do other actions in order
to get their representatives to hear
them there have been for the last six
almost 7 months people calling their
Congressional Representatives every
single day people writing letters um and
it's fallen on deaf ears it's they're
being completely ignored and the fact
that you know this is still continuing
they're still continuing to send
billions of dollars to is is for um
weapons deals for military aid is
extremely extremely disgusting they're
putting again the interest of a foreign
power over the interest of their own
people when they want this money to stay
in America and go towards housing go
towards food and go towards uh
Healthcare but the argument as as as
summarized on social media yesterday was
yes but you know this may look fascist
but imagine how much more fascy it would
look under Donald Trump and that's the
choice you have I mean is is that a
winning argument for the Democrats do
you think I think that's a very very
weak argument if for your candidate you
are expecting people to be scared of
someone else when none of the policies
under Trump have been reversed when the
infrastructure in this country has
collapsed when people are like when um
interest has increased so much when PE
when uh people have been going after
layoff through layoff and layoff since
Biden's election so I don't think it's
enough and I think a lot of people are
trying to recognize that you know the
two parties are one and they have to
resort to encampments to have their
their wants heard and for them to be to
feel that they're being represented um
you know especially after over 40,000
have been martyred in Palestine um
there's been 76 years of occupation
there's been a 17e on Gazza and the
Zionist regime continues to arrest
Palestinians through this administrative
detention which is basically you know
detention without any trial without any
um charge um it's really really
disgusting so there is a it's two sides
of the same coin there is no one is
better than the other both should not
even be considered to be president Sarah
thank you very very much and you know as
I think Phil was was alluding to once
again I mean we see these crackdowns but
that just seems to fire up the the
demonstrators and the protesters even
more actually I have to say there are
even more Tents today every day we've
come here there have been more and more
tents that are springing up here J
thanks very much indeed shabi George
Washington University in Washington
DC make sure to subscribe to our channel
to get the latest news from Al jazer